all right check it out guys there's
Trevor James we're with mr. taster just
got in to me run and we're at the grand
bazaar in Tehran yeah we're a full-on
adventure yeah we're gonna try different
pools we're gonna have these either
gonna patch in lots of food give it up
let's go go check it out this is it part
two of nine of our ultimate Iran food
adventure series where we're bringing
you to taste Iran's best food in six
iconic food cities and today we're going
for a full-on adventure through Tehran's
grand bazaar for some of the most
extreme food so make sure to click that
Bell notification button watch all the
way until the end and keep watching all
the videos in our iran food playlist
huge thanks to mr. taster on instagram
and to ali from come to persia calm oh
my look at this market wow this is
beautiful hundreds of people on this
market this Grand Bazaar just stretches
these alleyways are going for kilometers
we're going deeper and deeper into the
alleyways and mr. taster is bringing us
for our first Persian meal of the day
and we found the Persian rugs come on
foo look at these beautiful this is
really a location I've been dreaming to
visit Iran and just seeing these rugs in
front of your own eyes makes a
difference just look at this this is the
land of beautiful Persian rugs amazing
artwork it's a truly amazing experience
to see this with your own eyes $3,000
$3,000 just wow it's cheap it's cheap
compared to what they do you're tasting
us through the carpet second to go
through okay it's really busy yeah yeah
up the stairs here yeah oh and there's
all of these Persian carpets down here
and this is where we're gonna have the
disease this is our seats on the carpet
yeah you can smell it Oh Salam
we get her ear thank you oh yeah
hearts are there he's the boss how are
you busy what is this
it is fat and you've got peas in it love
you can it's lamb fat tomatoes tomatoes
peas beans onions look at potato that's
[Music]
[Laughter]
more than 60 years the first day the
first and he's been making this for his
life for his life that is absolutely
beautiful you can see this entire dizzy
seen a lamb and tomato and chickpea
thank you thank you very much oh thank
you sir
yes and we can sit here so we're gonna
put this down and the food is gonna go
over top of it yeah
Persian staff yeah right on the Persian
carpet oh and there it is the dizzy it
really is the pure lamb thank you very
much so this is the pure them yeah it is
yeah have it dizzy
taste it
[Music]
[Laughter]
so he's gonna mash the fat yeah I'm
putting it on the water
this is amazing you can really taste the
man tomato that is the best yeah
the lamb flavor the tomato go so well
together and the fat it's all about the
fat yeah and look at that this is the
main thing if you're gonna have the
onion you should break it like this just
with your fists yes oh look at that
we believe that is more delicious yeah I
just do it like this make it ready so
you let the bread soften up in your
dizzy yeah so do it like this mix it up
mix it up once we finish take this part
of onion because it's more delicious all
the center yeah okay hey peon yup yeah
oh sweet this is the main part oh and
what's next take the balls off this is
the lamb shank
oh we're gonna mash the leg and potatoes
and beans and peas little salt some salt
here some pepper this is so beautiful
that's gonna mash up yeah
so all that lab meat is gonna get mashed
up yeah lamb potato what should be fat
and he's been making this for 60 years
yes Wow getting so soft yeah it's
beautiful so you just take the mass chef
and add it to your bread yes and that's
the lamb I crack up you can either have
onions with it or greens or some because
let's try it greens yeah
can I put it on or do I eat after you
done do it both oh me that's like an
upgraded mashed potato
you've got lamb lamb pot tomato and
they've got the freshness from the herbs
this is a dream come true coming to eat
mmm in Iran
thank you and we are gonna keep moving
mr. taster is bringing us four more and
next up mr. taster is taking us to the
busiest restaurant in Iran serving ten
thousand people per day one of the most
famous foods in the whole country the
saffron butter infused patching rice
along with the most incredibly sweet and
sour cherry chicken rice we're going
even deeper into these markets these
busy markets this Bazaar is just
breathtakingly colorful yeah rich soaked
with culture and history and next up is
the touch in yeah it's kind of cute it's
plum excuse we're gonna taste in Muslim
Muslim is one of the best restaurants in
Basel I know others are mr. Roscoe is
nice to meet you
Salaam
you smell these as soon as you walk in
this is the Ruby do remember Ruby day
lamp about a bit larger size larger yeah
Google a lamb kabob this is chicken
kebab chicken apart or chicken kebab and
in the lab baguette and grilled tomato
oh okay
the Iranian rice is so fragrant you can
smell it mister taster was telling us
that it's fluffiest and most fragrant
rice in the world
oh the lamb shank
lamb shank with onion so what's this
what's this called here
mahi chair yeah and you know more eat
you and you eat this with rice yes this
is amazing to see the action in this
kitchen look at all and here comes the
touching Oh
so this looks is chicken stew over top
of the Iranian rice nice Oh a machine
yeah oh and this is the take it oh
that's Burberry and saffron-infused rice
on top right yes you can get it with
that chicken stew yeah look at look at
the chicken look at that it looks like a
curry almost yeah it smells like an
onion chicken gravy but this was just
the beginning
seeing these stews and tat cheese was
just a warm-up for going upstairs into
the real massive factory of catching
production and the real magic is
upstairs yes we're gonna see how they
make the touch yeah exactly and we're
going up
Salaam Salaam be okay thank you thank
you so much thank you look at this guy's
it's so busy just look at this scene
here we've got hundreds of people eating
this catching house thousands thousands
of people three levels of people eating
this touching you walk in here and you
just smell this outside okay we're going
all the way up here we go
up the stairs oh oh and I love how these
kebabs are just saturated in saffron
water this is insane it's a touching
factory here it's no aromatic the first
step for perch on rice is just taking
the water and then cook it with the
steam it already
almost smells buttery yeah exactly oh so
fragrant you are just nipping otherwise
oh and here it is oh so this is the cup
rice yeah this is the cooked ours yeah
this is 13 and it's so fluffy
this is the saffron yeah this is the
supper look at the color there saffron
water just going and mixing it through
and you can smell the butter that's so
buttery
Wow butter and saffron attached in the
Grand Bazaar look at the color their
pottery delight exact I've never smelled
something that aromatic Oh
Burberry yeah the Burberry yeah yeah oh
look at the color
oh the double layer yeah oh that's gonna
be really delicious to try it's truly
amazing there - yeah - see this the bars
in the middle yeah the butter yeah and
the saffron water executive this whole
kitchen
yeah and that was like saffron yeah and
cabal so I studied the squares exactly
and then yeah and then you eat this with
chicken curry chicken
Joon Papa gene yeah that was written and
it's going right in the oven how long is
this gonna bake for 35 minutes 35
minutes
oh and yeah look at the Versace this
ready
[Music]
bubbling it's sizzling it's like butter
and saffron on top of that already
extremely fragrant rice oh so they're
all finished
yeah no we can see the plating let's go
here it starts so it's the steamed rice
with the chicken onion Secunia Oh an
aubergine
a little bit of and now the real touchy
Oh with the barbary in the middle and
then here's the real magic that is the
barbary saffron rice and then a little
bit of butter on top just looks amazing
here we go we're gonna try that that
team right at the source made this you
that I told you it's very famous in Iran
all specialties
yeah look at the color here so these are
all Persian specialty yeah
so we've got is look she can be cherry
and it's that chicken gravy with the
onion you and the staff craft of own
exact and we've got saffron-infused
right yeah with pistachio be stretching
yeah and then this is the real specialty
right exactly
this is tatin and on top saffron and
former is the statue you can see oh and
some a virgin here man I love how in the
middle there's a layer of those
barberries exactly and it just smells
like butter eggs and saffron Cayman
Cayman is a kind of various specialists
you like Ghormeh sabzi okay it's the two
mainly
Raymond and worm or something okay the
main excuse that we cook every single
week so this is a lamb stew yes Oh lamb
with split pea exactly with lentil and
we've got potatoes as well so lamb with
mint oh yeah and chips it's like a stew
you just pour it over the rice just put
it here like this look at that
hold it here and then have it like this
oh my god it's a little sour yeah it is
it is yeah it's like a sour Lambs to
have wheedle I'm you know oh
so it's a little bit of citrus yes now
we should try this 13 yeah so it's all
about chickens again
you can have it depressed or like a
saffron sauce awful turmeric turmeric
kind of like Persian curry exactly
because almost 50 percent of uranium
food has got to turn me so you take a
little bit of the chicken
we're very touchy 19 oh you're like a
big race oh my god and the best part is
probably the crispy outside exactly yeah
and I love the color on there the
barbary is on top that's just so buttery
oh it's mix of flavors hmm you can feel
the statue you can feel the saffron
butter barbary and everything mixed
together it's an art yes
a little sour kill slightly yes because
of the Barbary pirate yeah
and you saw how the making it it's
amazing in mm-hmm put lots of rice
together and the saffron going in the
factory it is a factory yeah ten
thousand people having lunch here every
day every day every single day thank you
it's amazing it's amazing
and now we've got chicken with cherries
that looks unique yeah
you've got the chicken you've got the
cherry you've got the rose and you can
just dig in
yeah you just put it on your rice and
then and then take a little rice with
this oh that looks delicious look at all
the juice yeah juice on it as well once
you attack
that is amazing - that tastes like a a
sour cherry chicken gravy bug super
unique for this one and the Soron is
coming from for berries keep on coming
from Cherie and this one coming from
lemon and next up before going with mr.
taster to try the most famous dish in
Iran overlooking Tehran we're going to
find the oldest traditional tea house in
the Grand Bazaar and next up mr. tasters
meeting back up with us in a couple
hours for a big Persian feast and we are
gonna continue exploring the Grand
Bazaar here right up ahead we're gonna
go to a hundred-year-old Plus
traditional Persian tea house and I
think we're gonna try and find some
saffron tea and we're just walking
through the spice market you can see
hundreds of spices fresh and dried
fruits and we are gonna be walking into
this bizarre to a local hundred plus
year old tea house and I can't get
enough of the beauty of this
architecture it's a place of ancient
history soaked with culture and the art
is beautiful and what do you think of
Tara and so farting
people are pretty nice and how's the
food
amazing right unique
yeah it's unlike anywhere in the world
and here we are hi Ali
Darvish T Salam how are you good how are
you here well welcome
this one is TLC the war the smallest see
us in the world yeah hundred years ago
you want to yes please before kindness
come try the kindness lemon saffron and
mint
mix to them Salaam Wow look at the
color they're mint lemon and saffron oh
and the rock sugar crystal sugar
thank you thank you the kindness
teeth and that's what it's all about
deep in the bazaar of Tehran the old
bazaar having the kindness tea mint
lemon saffron and just look at this
ancient architecture on the roof
absolutely beautiful
hundred year old bazaar finish this tea
and then go meet up with mr. taste and
next up after driving through Tehran and
up to the hills for our final stop
mr. taster is taking us to try the most
famous dish in Iran the Ghormeh sabzi
and all overlooking downtown Tehran and
this whole city is so beautiful
next up we are going back to meet up
with mr. taster again and just look at
the color here Tehran is so stunning and
we're gonna have another big meal let's
go check it out and we are back with mr.
taster and finishing out the day going
for one of the most famous dishes in
Iran yeah we call it forma sabzi you
can't find it at home as well it's
really nice wow this is cool how are you
thing having fun and here we are we're
gonna go see the Ghormeh sabzi Salafis
don't wanna help this come to meet you
very nice person
nice to meet you and good friend of mine
really happy to be here today and here
we are this is the gourmet sorry yeah
the mobile sub C has the parsley in it
for in there lime and onion Ghormeh
sabzi this is the most famous dish of
Iran what do them you have one of them
I've heard so much about it and I'm
looking forward to trying the real thing
let's go try it up let's go
the gourmet we're what's up see ya the
national dish of you
oh there is with saffron rice yeah
the Ghormeh sabzi yeah it's beans
parsley we've got a black line so it's a
little bit citrusy it's derived lemon
wow it smells really good Korean there
in the coriander so this is Ghormeh
sabzi and you put it over and smell your
own rice exactly so we just scoop it
onto our rice yeah
the Ghormeh sabzi we've got laminate
also this laminar as well and the key
thing about forma sabzi is to have a a
bit part in it as well oh so this is
lamb and herb stew means if the magic is
to operon and this is the soul actually
this is the Chola kebab could be - yeah
we tried it yesterday
so till a kebab ground up lamb with
pepper exactly salt and so much so take
a bit lamb take a little lamb and some
vegetables after and rub together and we
take the onion take the onion yeah just
Oh take take a bit take a couple layers
yeah and this for the after bite right
yeah
Oh Go Go
[Music]
[Laughter]
you can taste the herbs that is the most
terrible lamb stew and you're saying
that the fat is important
lamb is Judah coriander yeah I love how
the saffron is in the rice yeah it's
everybody's and it's so fragrant Wow oh
what a beautiful scene looking out over
the city yeah look you guys can check
out mr. taster mister dot taster on
Instagram thanks so much
easing day it's a good day is amazing
yeah it's our last day in Tehran you're
gonna go to Lausanne there tomorrow and
have an awesome time yeah let's go
thanks guys leave almond down below